---
layout: post
title:  "07: Electronic Input Devices"
permalink: /07/
---

<meta name="viewport" content="max-width= 95%, initial-scale= 1">
<style>
body {font-family: Arial;}
body {background-color: white}
/* Style the tab */
.tab {
  overflow: hidden;
  border: 10px solid #933e43;
  background-color: white;
}

/* Style the buttons inside the tab */
.tab button {
  background-color: white;
  float: left;
  border: none;
  outline: none;
  cursor: pointer;
  padding: 14px 16px;
  transition: 0.3s;
  font-size: 18px;
}

/* Change background color of buttons on hover */
.tab button:hover {
  background-color: #933e43;
}

/* Create an active/current tablink class */
.tab button.active {
  background-color: white;
}

/* Style the tab content */
.tabcontent {
  display: none;
  padding: 9px 18px;
  border: 10px solid #933e43;
  border-top: none;
}
</style>
<body>
<p><font color="maroon">(click on the tabs below)</font></p>

<div class="tab">
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openCity(event, 'Session 7 ~7/18~')">Session 6 ~7/16~</button>
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openCity(event, 'Lab 7 ~7/21~')">Lab 6 ~7/17~</button>
</div>

<div id="Session 7 ~7/18~" class="tabcontent">
<h3>Magnetism</h3>
<p>In today's session, we learned more about electronics and sensors for circuits. There is a magnetic field sensor that can change voltage if a magnetic field comes closer. The voltage starts in about 2.5 volts (1/2 of voltage) and gets stronger if a positive magnetic change gets close to the sensor, and weaker if a negative one gets closer. Below is a picture of the sensor (looks like a transistor):</p>

<p>Another type of sensor is an accelerometer. This sensor is inside a box and the sensor is attached to a spring. With the effect of gravity, the sensor either gets close to one side of the box or another depending on the orientation of the box. This sensor sends this distance from every side to measure the force of gravity on the object.</p>

<h3>Light</h3>
<p>The next sensor is a photoresistor. They provide a little bit of current when hit with lights. The current basically adds together the previous voltage before the photoresistor's addition of the light's voltage. They are used to sense objects in front of the photoresistor, to sense if something is blocking a light to give an action, etc...</p>

<h3>Temperature</h3>
<p>The next sensor is a temperature sensor. It measures the surrounding temperature and changes voltage running through it accordingly to the change in temperature. You can also use this sensor to sense if the surrounding temperature surpasses a point, the sensor can open the current so that an action takes place such as turning in a fan, etc...</p>

<script>
function openCity(evt, cityName) {
  var i, tabcontent, tablinks;
  tabcontent = document.getElementsByClassName("tabcontent");
  for (i = 0; i < tabcontent.length; i++) {
    tabcontent[i].style.display = "none";
  }
  tablinks = document.getElementsByClassName("tablinks");
  for (i = 0; i < tablinks.length; i++) {
    tablinks[i].className = tablinks[i].className.replace(" active", "");
  }
  document.getElementById(cityName).style.display = "block";
  evt.currentTarget.className += " active";
}
</script>
