---
layout: post
title:  "04: 2D Design & Cutting"
permalink: /04/
---

<meta name="viewport" content="max-width= 95%, initial-scale= 1">
<style>
body {font-family: Arial;}
body {background-color: white}
/* Style the tab */
.tab {
  overflow: hidden;
  border: 10px solid #933e43;
  background-color: white;
}

/* Style the buttons inside the tab */
.tab button {
  background-color: white;
  float: left;
  border: none;
  outline: none;
  cursor: pointer;
  padding: 14px 16px;
  transition: 0.3s;
  font-size: 18px;
}

/* Change background color of buttons on hover */
.tab button:hover {
  background-color: #933e43;
}

/* Create an active/current tablink class */
.tab button.active {
  background-color: white;
}

/* Style the tab content */
.tabcontent {
  display: none;
  padding: 9px 18px;
  border: 10px solid #933e43;
  border-top: none;
}
</style>
<body>
<p><font color="maroon">(click on the tabs below)</font></p>

<div class="tab">
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openCity(event, 'Session 4 ~7/09~')">Session 4 ~7/09~</button>
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openCity(event, 'Lab 4 ~7/10~')">Lab 4 ~7/10~</button>
</div>

<div id="Session 4 ~7/09~" class="tabcontent">
	<p>Today in the class session we learned more about the Arduino program and its code, differen types of motors and what they do, and also we studied other prototypes that were previously done. Two of these ptorotypes were the musical tower with the doll parts and bells. The other ptorotype was the sharpie line drawer that drew when there was a shadow projected on a canvas.</p>

<p>New things we learned about Arduino code was about the different commands on the code. Input is the pin to where code is being sent to. Output is the pin where code is going out of. Input pullup is when the input pin is set to high (around 5V) so when you have a button open it will read as high voltage and when it is closed it will read as low. This is so the floating wire before the open button is not affected by surrounding "noise". This pullup method uses built-in resistors inside of the chip so it isn't necessary to use or make other resistors.</p>



<script>
function openCity(evt, cityName) {
  var i, tabcontent, tablinks;
  tabcontent = document.getElementsByClassName("tabcontent");
  for (i = 0; i < tabcontent.length; i++) {
    tabcontent[i].style.display = "none";
  }
  tablinks = document.getElementsByClassName("tablinks");
  for (i = 0; i < tablinks.length; i++) {
    tablinks[i].className = tablinks[i].className.replace(" active", "");
  }
  document.getElementById(cityName).style.display = "block";
  evt.currentTarget.className += " active";
}
</script>









